Part 6 – General 

35. Offence to carry on business without licence, registration or waiver 

(1) A person who carries on, or purports to carry on, virtual asset service in or from 
within the Islands for which registration is required who is not a registered 
person or the holder of a waiver under this Act, commits an offence and is liable 
on summary conviction to a fine of twenty-five thousand dollars and to 
imprisonment for one year. 

(2) Where the offence under subsection (1) continues after conviction, the person 
shall be liable to a fine of ten thousand dollars for each day during which the 
offence continues. 

(3) A person who carries on, or purports to carry on — 

 (a) virtual asset custody services; or 
 (b) operate a virtual asset trading platform, 

in or from within the Islands who is not a licensee or is not a person who is in 
receipt of a waiver under this Act, commits an offence and is liable on summary 
conviction to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars and to imprisonment for 
one year and in the case of a continuing offence, to a fine of ten thousand dollars 
for each day during which the offence continues. 

36. Offences by corporations, partnerships, limited liability partnerships, etc.

(1) Where an offence is committed by a body corporate and it is proved to have 
been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any 
neglect on the part of any senior officer of the body corporate, or any person 
who was purporting to act in any such capacity, that person as well as the body 
corporate commits that offence and is liable to be proceeded against and 
punished accordingly. 

(2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, subsection 
(1) shall apply in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection 
with the member’s functions of management as if the member were a senior 
officer of the body corporate. 

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a partnership, a limited 
liability partnership or an exempted limited partnership and it is proved that 
the offence — 

 (a) was committed with the consent or connivance of; or  
 (b) is attributable to any neglect on the part of, a partner concerned in the 
management or control of a partnership or a limited liability partnership, or 
a partner who takes part in the conduct of the business of an exempted limited 
partnership, that partner, as well as the partnership, the limited liability 
partnership or the exempted limited partnership, as applicable, commits the 
offence and is liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. 

(4) Where an offence under this Act is committed by an unincorporated 
association other than a partnership, a limited liability partnership or an 
exempted limited partnership and it is proved that the offence — 

 (a) was committed with the consent or connivance of; or  
 (b) is attributable to neglect on the part of, a person concerned in the 
management or control of the unincorporated association, that person, as well 
as the unincorporated association, commits the offence and is liable to be 
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

37. Offences for which there is no penalty 

37. A person who contravenes any provision of this Act for which no penalty is 
specifically provided commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a 
fine of four thousand dollars. 

38. Fitness and propriety 

38. In determining whether a person is a fit and proper person, regard shall be had to all 
circumstances including that person’s — 

 (a) honesty, integrity and reputation; 
 (b) competence and capability; and 
 (c) financial soundness. 

39. Regulations 

(1) The Cabinet may, after consultation with the Authority, make regulations — 

 (a) prescribing anything which is to be prescribed under this Act; and 
 (b) generally for carrying the purposes and provisions of this Act into effect. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may in 
respect of registered persons, virtual asset service licensees or sandbox 
licensees — 

 (a) specify standards for the form and content of any advertising or promotion 
of virtual asset service; 
 (b) require a registered person, a virtual asset service licensee or a sandbox 
licensee to make full and proper disclosure to clients of the capacity in 
which the registered person or licensee is acting in relation to a particular 
virtual asset services transaction and whether the transaction is being 
effected for the registered person’s or the licensee’s own account or that 
of any person other than the client; 
 (c) specify standards for dealings with clients and clients’ assets, including the 
holding upon trust of clients’ assets by the registered person, virtual asset 
service licensee or sandbox licensee; 
 (d) establish financial requirements and specify standards for financial 
conduct and record keeping and reporting; 
 (e) specify disclosure requirements in respect of the amount, value or 
arrangements for the payment or provision, of commissions or other 
inducements; 
 (f) specify arrangements for the settlement of disputes; and 
 (g) specify the nature and extent of any insurance arrangements required of 
the registered person, virtual asset service licensee or sandbox licensee. 

(3) Regulations made under this Act may provide that the contravention of a 
provision constitutes an offence and may prescribe penalties for any such 
offence not exceeding the maximum fine and term of imprisonment for any 
offence under this Act. 

(4) Regulations made under this Act may provide for such savings, transitional and 
consequential provisions to have effect in connection with the coming into 
operation of any provision of this Act as are necessary or expedient. 

(5) Regulations made under subsection (4) may be given retrospective operation to 
a date that is not earlier than 31st October, 2020. 

(6) Regulations which are given retrospective operation shall not — 

 (a) affect in a prejudicial manner, rights existing before the date on which 
those regulations come into force; or 
 (b) impose liabilities in respect of anything done or omitted to be done before 
the date on which those regulations come into force 

40. Indemnity 

40. Neither the Cabinet, nor a director or officer of the Authority nor any person 
authorised in writing by the Authority to assist it in undertaking any of its functions 
under this Act or appointed pursuant to section 25 shall be liable in damages for 
anything done or omitted to be done in the discharge or purported discharge of their 
functions under this Act, unless it is shown that the act or omission was in bad faith. 

41. Regulatory law 

41. This Act is a regulatory law for the purposes of the Monetary Authority Act (2020 
Revision). 

Publication in consolidated and revised form authorised by the Cabinet this 11th 
day of January, 2022. 

Kim Bullings 
Clerk of the Cabinet 